#Opening

All was dark, and that darkness was bliss.  Theo reached up and snugged the strip of cloth that he'd tied over his eyes.  It blackened out most of the room, but during the high sun of the day enough light came into his small bedroom that he was aware of faint glowing to the bottom and tops of the cloth.  No matter how tight he tied it, there was always some light that got in.

Over the last week, his hearing seemed to improve.  He spent his time listening to the heavy thud of his father's boots tromping around the house - periodically during the days work of wool shearing.  Theo grunted and pounded his fist into his mattress.  He felt terrified, helpless, and frustrated all at once.  He knew very well that their harvest would be short.  They may have to give up some of their flock over to the Keorgans, who'd managed their own flock quite well this year.

Theo's father, Beor, took all things in stride.  He was a walking stone to anyone who knew him.  Occasional smiles and chuckles with the few friends he had were a rarity.  But Theo knew that there was strong feeling that ran in his father, although deep and distant.  Beor loved him, and he was concerned more than he let on about Theo's condition.

The boy stood up and made a deliberate effort to listen.  The old cabin was silent - his father was out.  His hands shook as he slowly pulled up the cloth from his closed eyes and opened them.  Warm golden sunlight flooded his vision.  For a brief few seconds he was blind, awash in white.  Then it slowly faded and he saw everything clearly.  

His bedroom was well aged oak floors, walls, and a layered thatch roof.  Stacks of washed work leggings and shirts that he hadn't bothered to put on were laying on and over a solitary wood chair in the corner near a tall shelf.  On that shelf were the things he most cherished, stories and recounts of history.  They were stacked sideways and longways.  They had clefted page corners and bookmarks throughout.  Some had lost their bristle and covers and were merely stacks of paper held together with twine.  He looked at them with longing and sadness, sighing.

There was a bowl of water and damp clothes on the small table next to his bed that Raethe used to tend to him.  He scowled as he noticed it, but another part of him felt shame and embarrassment.  She'd consistently come as her duties to the town as a healer, but was unable to find out what the problem was.  Granted, he wasn't helping her at all.  Most of their talks ended with him tightening up his cloth, turning away from her, and demanding that she leave the room for her own safety.  

Theo looked into the water bowl and saw his haggard face.  It was gray and oily from days without wash.  Slow black stubble spread around his chin and cheeks.  His shoulder length hair hung at odd angles from the night's sleep.

His green eyes had lightly discolored rings under them.  He stared at his own eyes and fought back a fresh wave of fear.  He half expected an episode to happen again, like it usually did with other people.  Some unknowable curve of light that inscribes some odd shape on their eyes.  All their eyes.  It was as if some writing was there, some inscription.  And even more disturbing, he had this funny impression that they had always been there and maybe he was seeing them for the first time.  But then he would look, he would really look to find it out.  And that's when the illness would grip him and dazzling colors were everywhere.

Theo shook his head as if flinging water.  Delusions, this was the disease and how it worked.  He closed his eyes as if the submission to his struggle could make some difference in overcoming it.

A sizable window looked out over the gently sloping grazing fields.  He stopped clutching his head long enough to see about 10-20 sheep huddled together by their shaggy grey dog, Biscuit, who was sitting vigilantly watching over them.  He seemed to become alert and moved swiftly to his feet, watching keenly in the direction of the path to their home.  He inwardly groaned, it must be Raethe come for her daily work.

Within a few moments he heard the approach of a creaking wagon.  His father would have seen them coming and met them at the threshold.  He heard voices speaking.  More than two?  It did sound that way.  Soon footsteps were heard in the house.  His father's solid thuds and a scatter of lighter feet alongside.  Back to his room.

"Son?" His father called from outside his door.  The sound of his father's voice rung like a painful note against his ribs.  He missed him, but he had to be safe.  He couldn't risk seeing his father go through the same thing.  "Please, stay out." He replied loudly.

Beor pressed gently, "Raethe is here, but also an important visitor who might help you."

Theo sighed, an admittance of his helplessness and quickly tied the cloth back over his eyes.  "Fine."

***

Fiona watched the father as he opened the door.  Concern was set in his face and sadness.  She was glad to see that more than mere harvest and seasonal drudgery were the real reasons for her visit.  What she saw was real love, something invaluable to him in danger.  A rare quality in the long flatlands of this region, where so much of everyday life is harsh routine.  He couldn't have been walking on ice any gentler, which in other circumstances might have been comical in light of his considerable bulk.  His shoulders and neck were thick with muscles and knots from hard work outdoors.  His skin was burnished from time in the sun.

She followed the girl into the room, and then she saw the boy.  It wasn't a special moment.  The skies didn't open up.  Trumpets didn't play.  There was no host of angels at the windows.  And of course, the father and girl went about their business tending to the boy.  Fiona kept out of their way and stayed at the back of the room, satisfied to keenly observe.

"Feeling any better today, Theo?" Raethe asked briskly.  Almost as if she didn't much care for an answer she splashed her cloth into the bowl and began wringing it out.  The boy bowed his head, "Still the same."

The father spoke up encouragingly from the other side of the bed where he sat on a chair facing the boy, "Weren't you able to take the ties off?  I thought you told me-"

The boy cut him off sharply, "No.  I mean, I did.  But I couldn't do it again with people here.  It would happen again."  As he spoke, the girl wiped quickly at his face and neck.  Not ungently, but with professionalism and a degree of aloofness.  Fiona was interested.  There must be a story here.

"What would happen?" Fiona asked simply.

The boy jerked his head in her direction, "Who are you?" he asked.

"Oh, I'm just a nosey neighbor come to gawk at the deathly ill." she smiled crookedly.

The boy's lips curved into a small smile and he chuckled.  However, lines of worry and self-consciousness creased the corners of his eyebrows.  She gave up her entertainment and decided to come clean, "Your father requested my aid.  I am a healer from the Middle Wood.  You may call me Fiona."  The boy's eyebrows rose in interest and he let out a breath.  "All right, do you need to inspect me like the others?"

The father looked at her now and explained, "We've had the town healer come do the same, and when that didn't work we got one from Perdra.  Both times they couldn't take the sickness off him or even tell what it was.  They've given up.  Raethe here is our town's apprentice healer, having been instructed to provide care for Theo through the final stages."

The man swallowed thickly as he finished speaking, his lip briefly quivering and turning his eyes away.  Fiona watched Raethe as she briefly became gentler with her cleaning, having been effected by the father's words.  She seemed to remember that this boy was in dire condition.  The boy sat silently and still as the girl continued.

Fiona organized her thoughts and then spoke, "For now, I just want you to talk to me.  Theo, is it?"

"Yes," he nodded.

"Tell me what brought you into this state."

"I was in the Western most pastures with the flock on a morning last week.  It was coming near to midday and I was about to break bread on a nearby rock where I could watch all the animals.  Stormcoulds had been rolling in all morning and now it started to rain," he gulped struggling in his recollection, "Lightning was fierce and the thunder scared the sheep.  They started to move off, and I was on my feet after them.  The rain picked up and was coming down in sheets.  Next thing I know I see something..."  He looked up towards the ceiling as if re-living the moment.  However, his eyebrows moved in an uncomfortable way.  "Yes?" Fiona inquired.

Theo breathed out uneasily, "I'm sorry, Fiona.  It's at this point that it begins to sound like a fantasy."

Fiona smiled easily, "Have no fear of that, Theo.  Fortunately, fantasy is my specialty."

He nodded and continued, "A bright something in the sky - something on fire - came racing down and smashed into the field not a few hundred paces from me."

"Indeed?" Fiona pressed, collecting herself more attentively towards him.  She was careful to mask her eagerness.  "Yes," he affirmed, "I had never seen anything like this so I went to find it."  He pulled at the neck of his shirt and pulled something that was on a chain around his neck into his hand.  In his palm, he held an intricately patterned silver amulet.  The lines were thin and thick in turn, winding around and inside the circular ornament.  The material gleamed immaculately.

Fiona recognized it instantly and her stomach hit the floor.  There could be no question now.  She must have finally lost control of herself, and looked around to see both the father and the girl staring at her with concern in their eyes.  "Mother, are you alright?  Your face is ashen white." the girl asked, using the formal address of an apprentice to master.  She made to move towards her.  Fiona straightened immediately and held her hand up to halt the girl's aid.  "Please.  Sit.  We must hear the rest of Theo's story."

The boy seemed to sense the change in the room and shifted uncomfortably, but he continued, "It was lying in a dent in the ground where the grass had been burned to black earth all around it in a circle the size of a hay bale.  I went to pick it up-" his chest quivered as he tried to control his breathering, "and as I touched it, some ... some illness sensation just came over me.  Like the winter chills that bring snot and coughing and fever.  It all came onto me at once.  And there was one more thing."

Fiona, unconsciously, leaned forward on his words, "Go on."

Theo finally came to the end of his struggle and seemed to breath out resignation and abandon, "Light.  There were lights everywhere.  They were in lines and patterns.  They came out of the sheep and out of the earth and the sky like a spiderweb that was all over everything."  As he spoke, Fiona's eyes were locked on him and she was utterly still.  He went on, "I closed my eyes and rubbed them but the lights were still there, overwhelming me.  I couldn't see anything else.  I couldn't find the sheep or even tell which way I was facing."

The boy's father placed his hand on his shoulder as he spoke.

"After a while the lights started to fade just enough for me to make out the hills and things around me.  I walked back to the house and locked myself in this room."

Fiona nodded, staring blankly at the floor.  Her mind was racing over the prophecies that she kept locked way in the depths of her memory.  What did they tell her?  Would they speak to her now?  She was coming up with nothing - only an overwhelming conviction of meaning.  She found herself becoming desperate for the details that would let her find the knowledge.  A riddle that was so close to conclusion.  "But the lights are faded now, yes?  You can take that tie off of your eyes," she stated.

The father snapped his head towards her, "What?".  The boy looked surprised and suddenly rigidly alert, "How did you know that?" he asked.

"I know too many things, Theo." she smiled.

His brows furrowed and he all but scowled.  But there was desperation to it now.  There was some passion in it.  "You must be able to help me!  You know what this is!"

The father was confused, looking between Fiona and his son.  "What in skies, is going on here.  Son, are you no longer ill?"  Fiona observed the boy appear conflicted.  "Yes, Father, I still have it.  Those lights are gone, but new ones come whenever I take this tie off."  Fiona nodded calmly with assurance as he spoke.  "Things are fine when no-one is here, but as soon as people come around I begin to see the lights."

"But they are different now." Fiona suggested.

"Yes," Theo said, appearing uncomfortable to agree, "the sickness must be changing.  I see it around people.  But they cannot see it.  I see it in shapes in their eyes."

"It is no sickness, boy," Fiona said dryly, her voice deepening.  She was disconnected from all of them now as the memories clicked into place.  And she wished that she had never come to this place.  The crack has started.  This boy is the rending fault that will bring the two worlds crashing together.  "I know what this is, and I can help you along.  However, I need to know two more things.  Who have you seen since this accident?"

Theo shrugged and looked sullen, "Only Raethe, father, and the two healers.  Everyone is fearing that my disease will spread.  But this suits me well - I have no wish to visit this upon anyone else."
